
APPENDIX D

Transcript of Interview between Model and Hypnotist

H: So, how did you find responding to this one?

M: It was really good. With practice, I got better and

better at it.

H: I see.

=

It's just like you said, it's like learning any skill

like swimming or math. It just takes coaching and
practice. And this skill, it's really important that

you use your imagination. You have to picture all the

make-believe events in your mind.

H: Like what?

M: Well, for instance, I just let myself imagine that my
arm was hollow. I could see it that way in my mind; you
know, I could see my hollow arm with the air hose

attache@ to it. I even imagined the pump. It was

ust like the air pumps that they have at gas stations.

I could see the pump and the hose coming from it and

pumping up my hollow arm.
M:

arm

felt

M:

B9

I see.

And there's another really important thing. You really
have to let yourself get into it. That really made the
difference like you said it would. Like, I didn't just
sit back and say, “Hey, I'm imagining all this".
Commenting on it would have just ruined the feeling. I
just let myself get totally engrossed imagining my
as hollow and being pumped up, and when I did, it all

like it was really happening.

So, it felt real.

That‘s right. That's the point of all this, isn't it?

You'tve got to make it feel real.

Yes, exactly.

There's a real knack to it. I found myself getting

better at it as I practiced.

H:

Very good.

Hand-lock Suggestion

H:

How was this one?
90
M: Good. I think I'm really getting good at the skill

now,

H: Yes, you sure are.

M: I just let myself feel everything that was
suggested. It really felt like my hands couldn't come

apart.

H: Anything else?

M: I just pictured that my hands were two heavy, cold
blocks of steel that were welded together. I got so

into these thoughts that they actually felt that way.

H: That's right.

M: If I'd stopped imagining and admitted to myself that
they could come apart, then sure, of course I could
have made them come apart, but that wasn't the point of
the suggestion. The point was to get involved in the
make-believe no matter what. So I just kept really
involved in imagining my hands were welded chunks of
steel. And I did this until the suggestion was completely

over.
H:

91
Very good. That's just what I wanted you to do.

Anything else?

Uh. No, can't think of anything.

Book Hallucination Suggestion

H:

M:

How did you find this one?

Well, before I was even asked to open my eyes, I had
everything pictured in my mind. Like, I pictured the
desk and I pictured the book on it. I pictured all

the details of how the book would be positioned on the
desk and how the book itself would look. I could see
the book near the edge of the desk and on the book I
could see the little call number sticker and the stamps

and everything.

And when you opened your eyes?

You know, it's funny. Opening my eyes didn't make much

of a difference.

How do you rean?

Well, everything I pictured when I had my _ eyes

closed, I let carry over to when I had my eyes open. I
92
didn't
let a thing change. I let myself see the book on the
exact spot when they were open as I had pictured it

when they were closed.

EK: I see what you mean. That's quite clever. Anything

else?

M: There's another thing. It's really important to
concentrate as deeply as possible. Like I know it's
important ‘:o concentrate on all the suggestions, but

it's especially important with this one. You can't
let your thoughts wander for a second. You really have

to let yourself see the book there all the time.

H: Uh hun.

M: There's a real knack to this. It's a skill just like

you said it was, but it's a strange one. It's a skill

at NOT noticing that you're really acting.

A stio

H: How was this one?

M: Pretty goodd. I just let my attention drift away from

the memories of the suggestion.
93

H: So it was YOU who caused the forgetting.

M: Sure, in a way. You can only remember things by sort fo
stopping what you're doing and letting yourself think back

to what you're supposed to remember.

H: Ah yes, I see.

M: I just didn't stop and let myself think back. Instead,

I just let my mind become preoccupied with other thir.

H: Like what?

M: For instance, I noticed that my feet felt heavy and
tingling, and so I just concentrated on theses
sensations in my feet. As long as I did that, and
didn't shift my attention back to what I was supposed

to remember, then I really couldn't remember.

H: Yes, I see. What about when you were told to try and

remember the suggestions?

M: Well, it's like with the other suggestions ... you
know, when I was asked to try to separate my hands. I

didn't stop thinking oi my hands as stuck and welded
94

together. For the suggestion to forget, I just kept on
distracting myself. The point of the suggestion was to
keep up the forgetting no matter what, so that's what I
did.

Yes, that's right. Anything else?

No ... well except that, like I said before, there's a
real knack to this. You can really get good at it once
you practice. You can really feel yourself getting
better at controlling your mind to do all these things.

Almost everyone finds that.

Like, you can actually turn the make-believe into

reality ... and get good at it! It's actually kind of

H:

fun!

You know, almost everyone finds tha‘ too.