APPENDIX C

Transcript of Model's Verbalizations during Suggestions

H = Hypnotist M = Model
m risi S tj
H: Place your right arm straight out in front of you at

shoulder height. (PAUSE) Imagine that your right
arm is light and hollow like a balloon, and that it is
gradually being pumped up with helium The helium is
lighter than air and it is causing your hollow arm to
become lighter and lighter and to rise in the air.
More and more helium is being pumped into your arm, and
the arm is getting lighter and just continues to rise.

(WAIT 25 SECONDS)

M: It's going up by itself. If feels hollow. I can see
the pump. I can feel the arm being pumped up. It's
really light. It's moving up by itself. It just keeps
getting lighter and is going up by itself. It's just

getting lighter and lighter.

H: Relax your arm now and place it on the table.

Hand Lock Su
H: Place your hands on the table and clasp them together,

85
interlacing the fingers. (PAUSE) Imagine that ycur
hands are two pieces of steel] that are welded together os

that it is impossible to get them apart. They are
two pieces of steel welded together. When I ask you to
pull your hands apart, they'll be stuck and won‘t come
apart no matter how hard you try (WAIT 20 SECONDS)

Okay, try to pull them apart. (WAIT 20 SECONDS)

M; They're really stuck together. This is impossible.
They're welded together. They're just two hunks of

steel welded together. I can't get them apart.

H: Okay, relax. Your hands are no longer stuck together.

You can pull them apart. Continue tc relax.

°. a cina
H: Place your hands on vour lap and close your eyes.
(PAUSE) I'm not sure if you have noticed, but there
is a book of mine of the desk in front of you. It's
an average size book, one like hundreds you've seen.
It's right there in front of you on the desk. Open
your eyes and look at the book sitting there on the

desk. (WAIT 20 SECONDS)

M: There it is. I can see it on the desk. I1 see the book

sitting there. It's kind of vague and fuzzy ... a

86

vague, coloured outline of the book; but it's there.

H: To avoid the book being in the way, why don't you just

slide it off to the side. (WAIT 20 SECONDS)

M: I'll just push it over there and get it out of the

way.

H: The image of the book is now fading. It's faded

completely and you no longer see the book.

Amnesia Suggestion
H: As you recall, you were just give three suggestions.

However, a funny thing is beginning to happen; the

memory of these suggestions is fading, fading completely.
In fact, you are totally unable to remember what these
suggestions were. Nevertheless, I want you to try to

remember them - even though this will be impossible. Open
your eyes and write down the
suggestions that you can remember on the sheet of paper
on the desk. You will be given one minute. Begin.

(WAIT ONE MINUTE)

M: It's funny. I can't seem to remember any of the
suggestions. All I can feel is a real heaviness all oer ny

body, but especially in my feet. My feet are

87
tingling, they're just heavy and tingling. It's a
funny sensation. It feels kind of nice. It reminds me fo
lying on the beach, letting the sun tan my body.

Watching the people go by and the children ....

H: Time's up. Now the memories are returning. They are
becoming more and more clear. In fact, you can

remember all the suggestions that were presented. Write

down all of the suggestions on the piece of paper

provided. Again, you will be given one minute to do 30

(WAIT ONE MINUTE)

M: Now that I think of the suggestions, I can remember

them quite clearly.
